Apache Server


0. directive

¡°Directives¡± is the terminology that Apache uses for the commands in Apache¡¯s
configuration files. They are normally relatively short commands, typically
key value pairs, that modify Apache¡¯s behavior. An .htaccess file allows
developers to execute a bunch of these directives without requiring access to
Apache¡¯s core server configuration file, often named httpd.conf. This file,
httpd.conf, is typically referred to as the "global configuration file" and I will
refer to it with that name or its short filename equivalent.

This feature is ideal for many hosting companies deploying a shared hosting
environment. The hosting company will not allow its customers to access the
global configuration file, which ultimately affects all of the customers hosted on
that server. Instead, by enabling .htaccess, they give each of their customers
the power to specify and execute their own Apache directives in their own
directories and subdirectories. Of course it's also useful to the single
developer, as you will see.

1. .htaccess

It's worth mentioning that anything that can be done with a .htaccess file can
be done in the httpd.conf file. However, NOT everything that can be done in
httpd.conf can be done in a .htaccess file. In fact .htaccess files must be
enabled in the httpd.conf file in order to be executed at all. Once enabled,
their power can be limited to certain ¡°contexts¡± so that they may be allowed
to override some settings but not others. This gives the system administrators
more control over what they let other developers get away with in their
.htaccess files.

Enabling .htaccess:

.htaccess files are normally enabled by default. This is actually controlled
by the AllowOverride Directive in the httpd.conf file. This directive
can only be placed inside of a <Directory> section. Don¡¯t let this confuse
you. The typical httpd.conf file defines a DocumentRoot and the majority
of the file will contain Directives inside a <Directory> section dealing
with that directory. This includes the AllowOverride directive.

The default value is actually ¡°All¡± and thus .htaccess files are enabled by
default. An alternative value would be ¡°None¡± which would mean that they are
completely disabled. There are numerous other values that limit configuration of only
certain contexts. Some are: